# Efficiency-Optimization-of-Induction-Motor-Drive-at-Steady-State-Condition
Induction motors are workhorse of industries due to its power/mass relation, efficiency, low cost and nearly maintenance free operation in its life cycle. However motors with low efficiency waste a lot of energy that will increase its operational cost. As a result of high energy consumption and the huge number of operating units, even a small increase in efficiency improvement has significant effect on the entire energy consumptions and operational cost. This paper uses key features ofloss model control (LMC) and search control (SC) together for estimation and reproduction of optimal flux component of current (Ids), for optimal efficiency operation of induction motor. At first, a d-q loss model of induction motor is used to derive a loss-minimization expression considering core saturation. The loss expression is used to derive optimalIds expression and then Ids is estimated for various load profiles and finally tabulated. Based on those tabulated values, a look-up table in MATLAB is designed, and thus optimal Ids* value can be reproduced, depending upon run-time load profile, in feed-forward manner, and thus eliminates run-time loss model complex computation. Efficiency is compared for conventional vector control (constant Ids) and proposed optimal control (optimal Ids) operations. Superior efficiency performance (1-18%) is observed in optimal flux operation at steady-state, for load torque above 60% in simulation, for wide range of speed. The proposed hybrid concept is easy to implement, run-time computation free operation, ripple free operation, and offers higher power saving ratio with respect to useful output power.
